In the previous video,
we actually implemented the song class as
well as the album class for our challenge.
Now, time to continue on, and what we're
going to do now is we're going to just
test the album class is
actually working correctly.
So, to do that we're gonna go to our
main class and look for our main method.
So, what we're going to do
now is create some albums.
We're going to add some
songs to the albums.
And then ultimately we're going
to actually creat a linked list.
And add those albums to the linked list.
So, let's make a start.
So I'm going to type album,
album = new Album.
String, and the name of the album is going
to be Stormbringer, and Stormbringer.
Probably showing my age here.
And the band name is Deep Purple.
Okay, then, album.addSong and
the parameters, you can see,
with addSong, is the title and duration.
So, we're going to actually
going to add the song.
So, we're going to do The first
one's Stormbringer 4.6 and
add some extra songs there and
add the tabs.
Soldier of Fortune.
Albums.
And, we also need, up here,
a private variable called.
Field, I should say.
Called albums, which is going to be
an arrayList of our album objects.
So, private Array list.
It's going album.
"albums=new array list of album,
objects, like so.
It's up here, or down here.
If so we can type albums .add, and
we can actually add each album.
So I'm going to add two albums, so
I'm going to do this one first, add.
Album.
And that should have been static.
Because we're actually the static method.
Okay?
So, we'll actually create a second one.
Album equals new album.
For those about to rock,
one of my favorite bands.
And that's Aussie band there, AC/DC.
Let's add some songs, album.addSong.
For those about to rock.
Oops, semicolon there, and
let's just add a couple more.
Okay that should be enough.
And we'll just quickly fixes.
Hit one, two, five.
Course you could put whatever songs
you want to put in place of this.
Okay, last one.
And I just sped that up just
to make it a bit easier so
you didn't have to see
me typing all of that.
But you can actually use whatever songs
you want obviously in your challenge.
But that's the ones
that I've come up with.
All right, so we've got that.
And of course we then need to also
add that to the album as well,
to the albums ArrayList.
So it's albums .addAlbum again, like so.
And just a note there,
you might be wondering,
well how come we're adding album twice.
But we actually created
a new object at this point.
So, by creating a brand new object,
that's going to be completely
different to the previous album
object that we created above.
So, that's now.
We now have an array list with two
songs in it, By two different artists.
And what we are doing now we
can songs to the play list.
And if you recall the play list
is going to be a link list.
And of course the albums
are stored in an array list.
So, the link lists,
will be link list Song.
Play list equals new
LinkedList of song like so.
So, to actually add something
we can type albums.
First way of doing it, albums.get,
zero which is the first album we
actually added to the array list.
So, that would be the Deep Purple album.
.addToPlayList.
Now, we're going to use
the second one first.
The title And
we're going to put the name in.
And this is where you need to get the name
exactly the same or it won't work, so.
And we'll try You can't do it.
Whoops.
You can't do it right.
And of course we pass our playList to it.
And so if this name here,
that name there doesn't correspond exactly
to the actual name that's actually in
the album, in this case this one here.
Then it's actually gonna get an error.
It's going to get an error and
it's not gonna find it cuz
it has to actually match.
So, it has to, firstly it has to match but
secondly it has to be a song.
That was added to that album, so
in other words, if you put let's go here,
and you're trying to reference
element zero, which is the album for
Deep Purple, you'll actually get an error.
So, that's the first one.
Let's just add a couple more, so
we'll just do a copy and paste here.
Two more.
So, next one we can do is Holy Man.
Type incorrect there, and the next one is
create or type in one that doesn't exist.
The one that's not in that first album.
So, if I type in say, Speed king.
Does not exist, just to remember or
to remind us that, that's the case.
So, that should work.
So, that's one way of doing it.
So, the second way would
be to type albums.
And remember we overloaded
the addToPlayList method.
So, we can type albums.get(0), so
again it's the Deep Purple album,
.addToPlayList this time
we use the trackNumber, so
trackNumber Our nine,
which should be Soldier of fortune.
So, it's one, two, three, four,
five, six, seven, eight, nine.
Should be the last one there.
There, that's track nine.
So, if we just type now nine cuz
that was the second overload method.
And I'll just do that again so
you can see it.
Using this one here,
which is the first one.
So track 9, and it'll still be linked, a
playList actually that's actually sent to.
So, that's just another way of doing it.
So, doing the same now to add
some songs from another album,
let's add a couple more.
We'll add another four, but
we'll actually use the other album,
so album one which was the AC/DC album.
So, let's go back there now and
first one we'll do is song eight.
Which does exist, song three which
does exist, song two which does exist,
and song six.
Actually what we'll do for the last one is
to higher number we know doesn't exist.
So, that obviously doesn't exist.
There's not 24 tracks in the AC/DC album,
so that should fire all of a sudden.
There is no track 24, like so.
At this point we can actually
now try actually playing this.
Play playlist.
So, but of course, we haven't actually
written the playlist method yet, so
we need to actually quickly write that, so
what I'm going to do is just write
a really quick version of that,
and then we'll actually
enhance it in the next video.
So, I'm just going to make
a bit more space here.
Okay, so, first one's gonna be private.
static void play.
And the parameter I'm gonna be passing is
a LinkedList, LinkedList of Song objects,
which of course is our playList.
So, we're gonna start off
with something basic.
ListIterator, which will be Song.
listIterator cuz that's that top of
object = playList .listIterator.
And, we'll put if listIterator.size.
Actually, not listIterator, sorry.
playList.size, but that's equal to 0.
We're going to return a message.
No songs in playlist.
Return, else, what we're going to do is,
we're gonna start on parameters for
the first one,
we'll put now playing, ListIterator.
Next dot two string.
Now, this is the important part here,
the two string.
If you remember in the example for
all linked lists,
that before the challenge,
we were actually dealing with strings.
It was easy using dot next,
because we new it was actually a type.
Of string so
automatically worked some dot out.
But in this case we're using .net of
course we're using a song object.
So, what we've implemented is this two
string method of which I've talked about
in the previous video, two string.
If you go back and actually have
a look at the actual song object
Remember that the two string,
its function is just to print out for
a particular object, the title, the colon,
the space, and then the duration.
So, that's why we've
implemented two string.
When I run it I'll show you what output
looks like without two string and
with two string as well.
Okay, so going back to the playlist,
what we'll do for
now is we'll just literally
just play the first one.
We're just going to play that first song
just to confirm it actually is working and
we haven't actually got an error
message so we'll do that.
We'll actually go back to main and
we'll actually just run that.
I mean, I could get some message,
the song speaking is not in the album.
Which is correct.
Because remember that up here,
the song doesn't exist.
We actually purposely typed in a song
that didn't exist in the album.
And I'll just put that on the screen so
you can see it.
So, that's good.
This album does not have a track 24.
Remember we used a number that
we knew there wouldn't be.
Track four from the second album.
Now playing You Can't Do it Right.
And that was the first entry
that we actually added.
So, that's actually working
correctly which is great.
And notice that this is the actual
two string message there.
The name of the song, a colon and
then the actual duration, so
that's working as well.
That's using the song object.
And just to show you what happens
if I actually comment that out.
Sorry.
Should get rid of the override as
well to get rid of that message.
And we get back to mine again and
rerun this.
You'll actually see that
the code will still work.
But we now get now playing conduct
timber tracker.song@ 3d1 blah blah blah.
That number will probably vary if
you are running in on your computer.
And that is because if you go
back to our code again For Song,
we overrode a function if you recall,
toString was actually part of the Object
that is a class that is extended by
all other Objects you create in Java.
So, this is the default
implementation of the toString method.
That's what Java does, gives you the name
of the package the name of the class.
And a number which is meant to represent
the memory location of where that
particular object is in memory.
But what we've done, of course,
is we've overridden that functionality, so
it's actually printing
out something useful, so
that's what toString is used for, and
we could just run that again and see.
That looks like.
And we actually get the proper
representation showing.
So, what we need to do now
is actually continue on and
actually extend this player method.
Cuz obviously that is
showing the first song.
But we would like to have
a mechanism to add here so
that we can actually top in and
go forward in our playlist.
Go back in our playlist.
And actually have access to the other
songs that actually are part of that
playlist.
So, let's go ahead and do that now.
Let's actually extend out this
play function, play method.
So, we've actually got that.
So, we need to add a scanner.
Because we're going to need that for
input.
Scanner, equals new scanner.
System done, of course.
And we want a couple other variables,
quit, which we saw in the previous video,
quit equals false.
And, we want to maintain or
find out which direction we're going in.
Maintain the actual variable to tell
us which direction we're never getting,
forward or back.
For reasons explained
in the previous video.
So, I'm going to set that forward
initially to true because normally,
when you start a playlist,
you have to go forward.
Because you're at the first element,
you can't physically go backwards.
And I'll just accept that import.
Java to the scanner okay
we've got a Sonia Derader.
So, what we're going to do now is down
here is add some more code while not quit
because of course with the playlist you
can continue until you actually exit
out and we're going to put into
action equals scanner dot next hit.
Then we're going to do scanner.nextLine.
Again, clear.
Now, the actions we actually want this,
we're going to start with
something pretty simple.
We're actually going to start off
with obviously the ability to
exit out of the loop.
And we're gonna add some other cases and
continue to add that as we go through.
So, I'm going to start with switch on
action, case zero will be our quit.
So, we're just going to type
system out playlist complete.
And, quit = true and break.
And, we also want a case 1.
1 break case 2 break case 3 break case 4.
We're going to do print the lists.
Playlist.
And break, and I'll explain that shortly.
And case 5, we're going to print the menu.
And we're also going to
add a break after that.
And I'll put that on the next line.
Doesn't really matter,
that would still work.
It's still valid, that looks nice,
we're being consistent there.
Likewise for this one.
So, that's our basic menu at this point.
So, the actual options
we're going to be adding.
So, we've got the first one which
is the being able to actually exit.
The next option, option one,
we're gonna, is going to be a forward.
So, we're actually gonna go forward.
So, we're going to do that.
If not forward, you remember this
code from the previous video.
If listIterator.hasnext,
listIterator.forward,
sorry .next, I should say, not .forward.
And then forward Equals true.
So we're checking to see with we're not
going forward we need to actually change
directions to set it to going forward so
that the next line actually works.
And of course the next line is if this
iterator, if this iterator dot has next.
I'm actually gonna go to now playing.
+
ListIterator.next.toString
else we have reached
the end of the playlist.
And we set forward to false, cuz we
cannot literally go forward anymore.
So, that's the first one, and what we'll
do quickly before we end this video,
we'll do the second case, which is going
backwards, going back in the previous
direction, or going to the previous
entries, if there are any in the playlist.
So, of course,
the code we need to do there is to say,
if we're currently going forward.
if (forward),
if(listIterator.hasPrevious())
then we need to change that direction, so
it goes to the previous entry, previous.
Again this was all explained in
detail in the previous video so
I won't do it again now.
Then we set forward to false.
And then we just add our test,
if(listIterator .hasPrevious.
But, you can go back, in other words.
We're going to put Now playing
listIterator.previous.toString.
And of course, the else will
be if we've reached the start.
We are at the start of the playlist.
And of course, we're just gonna
hit forward to true at that point.
So let's, now that we've done that,
let's actually run this code and
I'll comment these out briefly and
we'll do those in the next video.
So, that it will actually compile.
So, we'll run this just to make sure that
forward and previous, or next and previous
in other words, going forward into the
list or going backwards actually works.
Now, what I haven't done at this stage
is I haven't actually got it showing
the menus, so
it's not showing any options.
So, we can actually type these,
we know that zero will exit so
we'll test if that works.
Zero actually Exits, that's good.
So, if we run this again, and this time if
we type 1, it should go to the next one.
And we'll just go up here and have a look,
the next one was Holy Man, so
that's correct.
Then the next one, now playing Soldier
of Fortune, and Soldier of Fortune,
we can check that that's actually
working by looking at that third entry.
Speaking was an invalid.
So, of course, that hasn't been added,
which is correct.
And track nine was Soldier of Fortune,
from this album.
And you can see that that's working,
so we'll do another one.
Now playing Breaking the Rules.
Breaking the Rules was Track eight for
this one and
you can see that's breaking the rules
which is track eight which is correct.
And just quickly going backwards we should
be able to go back to Soldier of Fortune,
go back to Holy Man, and go back one
more time To You Can't Do It Right.
And now plying, you can't do it right.
And press two again,
we should get an error.
We're at the start of the list,
so we can't do any more.
So, that's good,
we have a lot of our code working.
So, I'm going to stop the video here.
In the next video, we'll continue on.
And hopefully we'll get
close to finish this code.
I think that we're just about done,
so we'll do that in the next video.